---
title: Write first Gulp task
lang: en-US
createdDate: 2019/10/30 13:30
---

# Play with gulp
* Tip: Markdow preview on VS Code **Ctrl+Shift+V**

I used first gulp when i play with Sharepoint Online, and wonder what it is, what it can do?
From [Gulp Offical](https://gulpjs.com/)
> gulp is a toolkit for automating painful or time-consuming tasks in your development workflow, so you can stop messing around and build something.

So i mean Gulp is task runner.
Addition information from Quora
**Common Use-Cases for Gulp**
* **JS Linting**– checks all JS for formatting errors and consistency, so that you can find bugs before your code simply doesn't work in the browser.
* **Sass/LESS Compilation**– upon file changes with the proper extension for the two most popular CSS pre-processors, the appropriate CSS will be generated.
* **JS & CSS Minification**– When ready for deployment, compress JS/CSS to their smallest possible size.
* **JS Obfuscation (uglify)**– Provide (some) security from code theft by obfuscating the hell out of it with uglify.
* **LiveReload or BrowserSync**– When any front-end file changes, such as HTML, JS, or CSS, trigger an automatic, atomic reload in the web browser to avoid the repetitive task of reloading to see your changes.
* **(Simple) Deploying** – Push code live. Although there are better options for this if your setup demands sophisticated, coordinated pushing across a cluster of VPS instances.

In this article i did simple gulp setting.
## Install gulp command line utility

``` bash
npm install --global gulp-cli
```
## Create a project directory and navigate into it

``` bash
# npx for excute
# npm for install
npx mkdirp my-project
cd my-project
```
## Create a package.json file in your project directory

``` bash
npm init
```
## Install the gulp package in your devDependencies

``` bash
npm install --save-dev gulp
echo "// init gulp file" > gulpfile.js
```
## write first task
``` js
function defaultTask(cb) {
  // place code for your default task here
  cb();
}

exports.default = defaultTask
```
## Run gulp
``` bashs
gulp
```